you've been invited to play a game of would
you rather that could solve all your problems
but every choice you make is going to be brutal
you'll have to beat main torture and drown the
other players if you want to win the ultimate
prize but do you have what it takes when you're
traveling a room with desperate people willing to
torture you for cash what do you do i'm going to
break down the mistakes made what you should do
in how to be the death game and would you rather
this one iris desperately needs money for her
brother's bone marrow transplant and she do
anything to make sure he gets it her brother's
doctor wants to help and introduce her to this
wealthy philanthropist who offers to cover
her brother's bone marrow transplant but
there's one catch she'll have to kill and play
a game and will only get the money if she wins
the doctor confirms this guy's legit as he was a
winner of the last game and got a lot of money out
of it it's extremely generous and she asks to
think it over all right there's already enough
here to tell me this is a sketchy deal if he
wanted to donate his wealth to people in need
make making a private game out of it is completely
unnecessary there must be an alternative motive
here but this group doesn't have a lot of options
a bone marrow transplant can cost up to 675 000
which is insane if she worked three jobs like
the one she applies for at this restaurant
and didn't spend a penny for eight years she
still wouldn't have enough money to afford the
procedure if it's my brother i'd still join any
game short of an underground rush roulette ring
to make sure he could live but not without
some basic questions answered first if we're
going to play a game we need more information
to prepare study it and devise a strategy to win
this girl didn't even ask what the
game was and that was her first mistake
the best source of information is the doctor
here because he was the winner of the last game
i wouldn't leave until he told me his advice
and strategies so i have a competitive advantage
after returning home she finds out she's been
rejected from her recent job application and she
realizes her brother will die a slow and painful
death unless she decides to join the game the next
evening she heads over to the mansion where the
event is being held he meets seven other guests
it's a real mixed bag of people there's a woman
in a wheelchair a professional gambler from vegas
and even an iraq war veteran all of them are here
out of sheer desperation and looking for a chance
to win big but none of them are prepared
for the horrors they'll be facing tonight
okay they might all seem friendly right now but
this is a room full of desperate people which
makes them dangerous and we should expect they're
all sizing up the competition so we should too
we can actually tell a lot about these people
based on their positioning in the room body
language and drink selection every single one
of them is drinking alcohol except this guy who
just has water this seems irrelevant but it's
incredibly important if you're about to play a
game you want to be sober it tells me this guy's
taking the competition more seriously than the
others and is already strategizing if they offer
me drinks i'm refusing i can also tell that this
girl and this veteran have trust issues because
they've distanced themselves from everyone else
in the room they're not here to make friends
they're here to win and i expect that neither
of them will easily cooperate with the group the
butler comes in and tells the guests to remove any
of their personal belongings before they enter
the game as a way to make sure they don't cheat
it makes them feel nervous but with money on the
line everyone has their phones and bags over and
makes their way to the dining room okay we are
playing a game and phones might be an easy way
to cheat so handing them over is actually a
reasonable request but this is exactly why
i would do everything i could to take mine inside
if i'm already desperate enough to be here in the
first place why would i suddenly want to play
by the rules if my brother's life hangs in the
balance i need every advantage bear or not to gain
the upper hand they ask for my phone i would tuck
it inside my waistband behind my belt and simply
say that i didn't bring it with me there's no
metal detection no x-ray not even a pat pat-down
this is a flaw that we can and should exploit
dinner starts and they serve the main course of
steak and vogue but iris here has some gripes
she's a straight vegetarian who's sworn to never
eat meat and this is where the night starts to
get interesting the host offers her ten thousand
dollars to give up her lifelong commitment and eat
the steak she refuses at first but everyone has a
price as she takes the deal and swallows her pride
he then notices the old man here is drinking only
water and finds out he's a recovery alcoholic
offering him thousand dollars he ups the ante
and tells him to drink an entire scotch decanter
after a lot of hesitation he finally gives up
16 years of hard-fought sobriety okay there's a
pattern building here the host wants to make us do
things that go against our principles and morals
for cold hard cash fortunately this can be easily
manipulated because both of these challenges were
based on information that they volunteered i
would create a lie that would make him give
me easy challenges that i didn't morally object to
such as telling him i'm jewish and only eat kosher
i might even say i'm celibate just to see what
happens now this is probably going to escalate
quickly and if we stay too long he might be asking
us to do things that are downright evil with the
room of desperate people only god knows what some
of them might be capable of especially when things
start getting competitive we should be taking this
opportunity to grab as much cash as possible in
these simple isolated challenges and leave before
it gets out of hand the host then reveals the main
event of the evening they will all be playing
a game of would you rather with some important
differences in each round every player will be
given two unpleasant choices with only 15 seconds
to choose they're eliminated if they don't act in
time and the last remaining player wins the game
before they start he offers them a chance
to leave but no one gets up and the game
begins the host reveals that his butler used
to be an interrogator for mi5 as he brings out
one of his old tools for torture and they'll be
using it to electrocute their guests the alcoholic
wants no part of this and tries to leave but the
butler makes it clear that's no longer an option
by shooting him in the head if they want out alive
they need to win all right this is messed up and
not just because they've skipped dessert if it's
me i'm paying close attention to the iraq war
veteran he would have the best instincts in
a life-threatening situation and if he's not
moving into striking distance of the gunman it's
fair to say we don't have a good chance to find
our way out of this we need to play the game
until we have a better opportunity to escape
and now it's all about making the best choices
to keep everyone alive for as long as possible
now we have only 15 seconds to make difficult
decisions which gives us very little time to
explore the consequences of each choice this thing
is a torture device so we'll likely have to choose
between two different forms of pain which is
scaring the [ __ ] out of everyone at the table
in high pressure situations like this one
the brain is influenced by fear panic and
cognitive bias we tend to compensate for these by
oversimplifying our options but there's actually a
way to bypass all these mental blocks to allow
you to make better and more rational decisions
professional chess players use a decision-making
tactic in their games that psychologists call
combinatorial versus positional thinking where
a player makes a series of moves based on a very
specific final outcome in mind and lets them make
strategic sacrifices to achieve their final goal
now most people in this situation would base
their decisions on avoiding pain but that's a
mistake because it limits your thinking and
strategy to only a momentary goal the final
outcome here is not to suffer less pain it's to
win and survive this type of strategic thinking
helps bypass intuitive and emotional responses and
make better decisions to gain the advantage the
brother puts a headband on this guy and he's asked
if he would rather electrocute himself or amy here
the host starts to clock and just before
time runs out he decides to shock himself
and they say chivalry is dead but he's voluntarily
weakened himself without gaining anything in
return if it's me i'm choosing to shock someone
else because it increases my chance of winning if
others are too injured to continue the game he's
actually given everyone an advantage because they
now have more information to work with if we know
what we're in for we can plan for it better this
guy is still conscious and doesn't have any burn
marks which means the electrical potential is too
low to stop your heart and you can survive a
single shock now there are some things we can
do to lessen the pain here water is a conductor of
electricity so if i was next i would dry any sweat
from my forehead because wet skin has 500 times
less resistance to electricity and will hurt much
more we could also consider cheating if you were
brave enough and halfway decent at sleight of hand
you could try slipping a credit card between
your skin and the electrodes because plastic
is an insulator and thin enough to hide the next
two players in line get strapped in but amy here
wastes no time and instantly chucks the old woman
like it's nothing she's cold-blooded the old woman
is given the same choice and she chooses to shock
the gambler they go around the table and finish
the first round with lucas and iris here the
only other players who decide to shock themselves
okay there were actually two ways to play this
as a team and that was for everyone to either
unanimously decide to shock themselves or to
shock others only these two options will have
a fair outcome because everyone gets shocked only
once but this strategy requires 100 trusts and no
rogue decision makers and when the challenges
get more brutal we won't be able to rely on
others and think about the group over themselves
and this tells me group decision making would be
a bad strategy the staff prepare for the second
round with their only chance the group secretly
discussed taking down the guards stealing their
guns and taking their keys to escape the house
before they can come to any agreement the
host's son julian comes in to taunt them the
veteran starts mouthing off and the son makes
it clear that he'll regret it later all right
bad decisions are made when you let emotions get
the better of you now studies show fear drives
people to make pessimistic decisions and angry
people will make optimistic ones deciding to
curse this guy out optimistically assumes that
there will be no consequences and that's stupid
we already know that the host will have us killed
without blinking an eye i'd want to stay quiet so
i don't get any special attention now it's
cold-blooded but i'd also encourage others
to speak out and get emotionally triggered this
situation is scary as hell and i'd be pessimistic
enough to think there's no way out of this without
winning meanwhile iris doctor has snuck onto the
property he won the last game so he must know
what's going on and it looks like he's here to
help them but he can't take out all the guards by
himself so they'll have to survive the next round
until he can figure out what to do okay there's
no reason for this doctor to be on the property
if he actually wanted to save lives and avoid
suspicion from the host he should have stayed
home and called the police or the fire department
from a birder phone to avoid any trace of the call
back to him if the authorities get involved it
gives the guests an opportunity to escape this
guy doesn't consider any of this and if he is my
doctor i'd definitely be seeking a second opinion
the next round has begun and this time they
will have 30 seconds to make their decision
but the choices will be a lot more sadistic the
first player to go is iris and she's asked if
she would rather stab this guy's thigh with an ice
pick or won't be better with the staff three times
okay things are getting really serious now we
have to be a lot more careful of our decisions
because not only could they kill someone but
we should also be expecting retaliation if we
make the wrong choice i'd be very tempted to beat
someone as a lesser punishment but in this case
choosing the ice pick is actually the safer
the two options this whipping stuff is called
a jambock and it's a [ __ ] nightmare irish
decided to use the african whipping staff but the
bigger mistake here was letting him take off his
jacket because he's removing a layer of protection
she tries to take it easy on him but the
host won't count them unless she uses full
force now the back has a lot of weak ones there
are vital organs nerves and bones without a lot of
muscle or fat to protect them making it much more
dangerous this guy didn't specify where to hit him
so if you had to use the staff you should aim for
the butt the thighs and the forearms dominatrix's
target needs an impact plate because they have a
higher pain threshold than the rest of the body
so getting a little kinky might actually save
your life the next guy is given the same choice
he can either stab the woman or whip the veteran
three more times he knows there's a major artery
in the thigh that could kill her but isn't sure
where it is so he chooses to beat the soldier
again this guy's taken like a champ luckily it's
the veteran's turn next and he's given a choice
to stab this guy or get whipped three times by
the butler surprisingly he chooses the whip this
guy begs the veteran to stab him but the host says
he can't change his mind okay he's clearly being
singled out because he's stood up to the host
son and it's hard to watch but it's also a direct
benefit to every other player in the game the
most practical decision here is to use this as an
opportunity to take out a competitor and improve
your chances of winning so when it's our turn we
should make our decision based not on what keeps
him in the game but on the most compassionate
way to take him out of it the best solution for a
merciful exit from the game that defend the rules
is the samsung and the femoral artery because
it's a major supplier of blood to the lower body
this artery is primarily centered around the
inner thigh to aim for somewhere around here and
dealt with a matter of minutes if they don't get
help it's cool but there are two ways out of here
you're either the winner or get sent out in a body
bag it's the gambler's turn now and he's given the
choice of either whipping the veteran who could
die from his wounds or stab the paralyzed woman
next to him he rationalizes that she won't feel
the pain because she's paralyzed and he stabs
her in the thigh accidentally piercing an artery
he makes a tourniquet with his belt to stop the
bleeding as the woman decides if she wants to whip
the soldier or stop amy here she gives her answer
and quickly jumps the goth girl with the ice pick
but wasn't expecting to get elbowed in the face
the gambler made the right move here the vet is
on his way out and the old woman came for their
legs so if he aims for the femoral artery he could
eliminate her aimlessly that's true for the price
of one and it's a perfectly rational strategy to
cut down the pool of competitors his reaction here
is a great way to garner empathy because even
though he stabs her he also decides to help
her once he sees how severe her wound is acting
morally conflicted makes him appear less evil and
the other players might be less likely to target
him as a result on the other hand if you act cold
and calculating you make it easier for others to
see you as someone they should take out quickly
emotions and instinct play a huge role in fast
decision making so if you dehumanize yourself and
give them a justification to punish you they'll
have no problems hurting or eliminating someone
they think is a bad guy now it's this woman's
turn and the host decides to make things more
interesting she can either whip the soldier or
stab anyone she chooses she makes it clear to
everyone that this is a competition where teamwork
does not pay off and she's dead set on winning
this she chooses iris as her target and asks the
host if she can stab her anywhere he tells her she
can stab only below the shoulder and immediately
the girl jumps the ice pick into her side
it didn't penetrate the lungs so she's going to be
okay but as she's recovering the veteran collapses
from his injuries and isn't getting up okay
they've introduced a new choice into this game
and this is important to our strategy because we
can now selectively target who to injure with one
person eliminated and two on their way out we
should consider who's most likely to survive
the longest out of all of them the old lady is the
weakest due to her age and fatal stab wound so i'd
want to keep her around these two guys are healthy
enough to take quite a beating but they've also
shown a willingness to sacrifice themselves for
the group so they might be easier to manipulate
and are therefore less threatening amy is most
likely going to stab others in the back which
makes her the first person you should take out
as she's too dangerous to be left alive iris here
is in this for her brother so she do anything to
make sure he gets what he needs making her just as
dangerous as for the gambler i expect he's better
at calculating probabilities and risk assessment
and will eliminate any other competitors who get
in his way if they give us the freedom to choose
the top three people we need to take out are amy
iris and the gambler and winning the game depends
on making sure your last remaining competition
is weaker than you downstairs in the basement
the doctor is breaking in and he's decided
he has to do something about this to rescue
his friend iris before she dies in the game the
butler determines the soldiers unconscious but
still able to play but they realize the old woman
has quietly died from a wound she gets eliminated
it's not this guy's true to choose and he decides
to beat the veteran so hard that he can't continue
leaving five people left to play but before
the weapons change hands the players make
signals to each other and they wait until the
host starts speaking with his butler to seize
their opportunity the three men attack the guards
distracting them as iris here runs out of the room
the host shoots one of the players dead and ushers
the remaining guests to the table but when he
realizes that someone is missing he commands
his butler to find the woman and lets his son
join the search okay this was their best chance
at escaping and they took it we have two weapons
that we didn't have in the first round and they
would have been taken away once the next one
starts so it was a perfect time to strike and they
nearly got away but they made a few mistakes here
the first was assuming the hosts don't carry guns
there's no way i'm thinking they aren't armed for
any number of unexpected outcomes and if they've
been doing this for years they would know better
this guy should have left as soon as he had
the chance instead of walking up to the host
secondly splitting up will divide the outnumbered
guards giving someone the opportunity to look
for confiscated cell phones to call the police
the windows aren't barred so i would look for
a room in the first floor of a window and lock
myself in meanwhile you should grab a knife in
case you need to force open any locked doors in
the escape this is actually not that hard to do
as long as the slanted part of the latch bolt
is facing you the knife can slip into the small
crack of the lock to force it open and you can
run away iris here tries to break out through
the basement window where the whole sun finds
her and tries to take advantage she fights back
and stabs him in the leg her doctor slowly shows
up and tries to rescue her but seconds later he
gets shot by the butler who takes iris back to
the game okay this encounter here has made a lot
of noise and when you're running from the guards
you have to expect they'll be drawn to the sound
the doctor should have considered hiding the dark
to wait for a guard to show up so he could easily
ambush him and save iris even still wandering
into the house got him killed and all he had
to do was make an anonymous phone call to the
police and mention gunshots as for iris this
is a difficult situation she stabbed the skyline
lake we saw who eventually was to the soldier if
we get caught and dragged back to the game we'll
die for sure so with this in mind i'm deciding to
stab on the neck for the kill and run out of the
hallway so i'm not caught standing over the body
returning to the game the guards bring out a
barrel of water in this round each player will be
given a sealed envelope and inside is a card with
a punishment written on it they have 30 seconds to
choose between being held down under water for two
minutes or take their chances with the envelope
okay as soon as i see the tub full of water i know
where this is going so before even being presented
a choice i'm going to start breathing exercises
to prepare in advance also opening the envelope
takes away your ability to make an informed choice
now with that said two minutes held under water is
totally possible to survive the magician david
blaine once out his breath for 17 minutes using
the technique that pro divers use known as oxygen
assisted static asteroid david blaine's method is
to take a minute to breathe in and out deeply
then purge your body from excess carbon dioxide
inhaling quickly and exhaling strongly if you do
this a normal person with no prior experience can
hold their breath twice as long as they would
normally the trick here is to keep as still
as possible the water slowing down your heart
rate and not the panic and thrash because the
body will send oxygen to the muscles creating more
carbon dioxide buildup and making it much harder
to hold your breath thankfully we as humans have
the mammalian dive reflex which naturally occurs
once your faces are submerged this will cause your
heart rate to decrease narrowing the blood vessels
to ensure that organs like the brain of the heart
have a continued supply of oxygen the gambler
goes first and decides to make a gamble on the
envelope finding out he must light a firecracker
in his hand it seems like he got lucky but instead
he's handed something much bigger the host assures
that if it's a dud he'll get a free pass but to
make sure he doesn't drop it they tape it to his
hand and force him like the fuse at gunpoint the
explosion turns his hand into bloody chunks and
he dies from a heart attack leaving three players
left to play okay this guy mentions it's a quarter
stick but based on its size and the description
provided by the bureau of alcohol tobacco and
firearms it looks more like an m80 because an
actual m1000 quarter stick is six inches long that
ain't no six inches trust me these explosives are
illegal to own without a license because they're
so dangerous there's no way out of this situation
other than to cheat he had more than 30 seconds
before the explosive went off so i would have
tried using my fingers to slowly pull the wick out
of the explosive container and rip it out of the
socket it's glued into this might convince them as
a dud and i'll get to keep both my hands lucas
here decides he'll open up the envelope and he
discovers his punishment is to slit his eye open
he's given a razor blade in 30 seconds to do it
but he doesn't think he can it's too scary still
he holds the blade to his eye and when there's
only three seconds left he slices it open all
right this is where you'd lose me i can't even
watch people put their contacts in so slitting my
own eye is just too damn hard but there might be a
way to do this properly without losing your sight
the eye is one of the fastest healing parts of the
body so you should look a way to avoid the pupil
and slice the whites of your eye only in order
to avoid further damage you should keep your eyes
closed if you look around with one eye the other
eye follows because they're paired together
i won't be able to see but i probably won't
need to in order to win and it will protect my eye
for further damage the next player irish bravely
decides to take the water barrel instead and
it's not easy but she manages to last the whole
two minutes much the host surprise it's a good
thing too because if she had chosen the envelope
all her teeth would have been extracted this
leaves amy here to go next and she chooses the
envelope rather than the water barrel but as she
discovers her punishment is being held under water
for four minutes instead of two and unlike iris
she does not make it this leaves only two players
left and the host reveals for this final round
things will be very different the buzzer flips
a coin and iris gets to go first where choice is
simple would you rather end this game now with
both players leaving empty-handed but would
you rather kill lucas here with this pistol
okay she's been headed the keys to freedom but
there's more actual decision making here than
meets the eye if she walks away they both live
there's no reward and her brother inevitably dies
if she shoots him this man dies but her brother
lives so ultimately this decision is actually
between the life of this man or the life of her
brother if we were thinking about the greater
good we would take into consideration how many
people this man cares for and how many people his
death negatively affects it has a ripple effect to
everyone in his life he is responsible for so if
we were being altruistic this would be the right
course of action but at the same time how could
i tell my brother i chose a stranger's life over
his with my brother's life on the line and only
30 seconds to decide i'd be heavily influenced
by emotional and instinctive decision making and
probably would shoot him in the end mexico choose
the first option and tries to convince her to walk
away but she shoots him and everyone applauds as
the sole winner of the game she's given her prize
a bag full of money a bone marrow donor for her
brother and a chance to finally go home she gets
back to tell her brother the good news but tragedy
finds out he's killed himself all that torment was
for nothing after such an awful night i take that
money and use it to get some much-needed therapy
you